---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

# Gatsby Chronicles:

This week has been probably the most frustrating and disappointing week for me thus far. I spent three whole days of the week trying to successfully setup the gatsby docs locally. On my windows device, I am able to get to the last step in the [gatsby docs setup guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/docs-contributions#docs-site-setup-instructions) under the header "Docs site setup instructions" and run the command "gatsby develop"; however, the command never finishes as it keeps on running "generating image thumbnails." I have tried so many things to attempt to fix this, but just haven't been able to. I have done an extensive search to see if someone has posted this issue before to the gatsby team, but I didn't find one quite similar to the problem I was having. 

Feeling frustrated, I decided to get the windows subsystem for linux in hopes that maybe this would allow me to successfully setup the docs. Even with this, I ran into so many problems. I fixed all of them and managed to work my way to the last step aka the "gatsby develop" command. Here though, the command never finished running, but for a different reason then my windows device. The command stays stuck on "source and transform nodes" and just never proceeds from there. I googled this to see if someone has reported this issue to gatsby before and yes there have been numerous people who have posted this same issue. All the issue reports have been closed in favor of a [main issue report](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/6654) concerning this issue that has been going on for nearly two years and is still going on! The gatsby team is still looking for a solution to this problem! 

Unable to get it working on WSL, I went back to my windows device to keep trying as it was further along in the command. Unfortunately, I had no success. I only saw one thing to do, and that was to post an issue myself to gatsby. I have posted the [issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/22649) today to the gatsby team in hopes that someone can help me find a solution. 

Despite all of this, I have continued to do the necessary research towards the documentation issue that I have selected. I am hoping that I can begin contributing soon.


# What I found, what I discovered, and what was hard while investigating Wikipedia pages:
One thing I found from investigating Wikipedia pages was that not all Wikipedia pages are actually immediately editable unless you are already an established member of the Wikipedia contribution team. This week I wanted to make a change to the Abraham Lincoln Wikipedia page. I had done the necessary research, and then as soon as I was about to edit the page and add my changes, I noticed that there wasn't an "Edit Source" tab at the top of the page. Along with this, there was also a lock icon that when clicked states that the page is protected and that there are some prequisites that a user must have before being granted access to edit such a widely viewed Wikipedia page. I found this interesting because initally I thought all Wikipedia pages can be immediately editable by any user no matter how many contributions they have made to the Wikipedia pages, but this is most certainly not the case as I have found earlier this week.

One thing I discovered while investigating the Wikipedia pages was that on a lot of Wikipedia pages, there is actually an immense amount of accurate information. I was having trouble finding a Wikipedia page to contribute to because almost every single Wikipedia page that I wanted to contribute to already had all the facts and necessary information regarding its respective topic and all that information was actually extremely accurate. Wikipedia pages tend to get a bad rep because people have this preconfigured notion that Wikipedia pages have a ton of misleading, inaccurate, and unreliable information, but this is most certainly not the case especially in all of the Wikipedia pages that I have investigated within the past two weeks. As a result of this, picking a Wikipedia page to contribute to and then actually following through with that contribution tends to have a somewhat slower process than other contributions that I have done so far this semester.

One thing that I found to be hard while investigating the Wikipedia pages was finding relevant and significant information that can actually enhance the content that is already provided on some of these pages. This was difficult because as I mentioned above many of these pages already have all the facts about their respective topics and these facts are pretty accurate. It's hard to find new information or add minor details because another contributor already has added them. As a result of this, a contributor like myself has to keep on searching and analyzing many different pages before finding a page that does have some information that can be added to it.

# "Why to Report Bugs" Article Repsonse:
My initial reaction to this article was that I immediately love the overall message that the author is trying to convey. This article has really touched me because it directly correlates to what I have been having to deal with for the past few weeks with gatsby. This week was very frustrating for me because I have really wanted to make huge progress towards my contribution to the gatsby project, but it has been very hard. This week I spent multiple days just sitting at home for more than 6 hours trying to fix all the errors that have been thrown my way when working with the gatsby project as a windows user. My group members have macs and haven't at all had to deal with all of the headaches and annoyances that I have had to. I have come to discover that the gatsby project just really isn't so optimized for windows users. It even says within the gatsby docs that it's best to either have a vm or the windows subsystem linux because just windows alone will propose too many headeaches as there are so many errors. I found this out late, and it's really been hard to find solutions that are specific to problems caused by windows. Regardless of this though, it is still important to report these bugs because that's part of FOSS.

It's true that a posting of a bug will not only help myself, but also the project and future contributors that may encounter the same issue that I have encountered. It can be a bit nerve-racking to post a bug, but it's good to remember that only good stuff can really come from it. I love his message that for people who are making open source projects that they should try and put themselves in the user shoes because they can't always assume that everything is working fine and perfectly like he did with his project because that most likely isn't the case. That's part of open source development and as contributors it's our job also to do the same and help out each other. That teamwork aspect is what makes open source development so special!

# Kevin Fleming Class Visit:
I am very thankful that Kevin Fleming came to visit our virtual class and discuss both his and Bloomberg's work in the open source world. I found his presentation very informative for a great many reasons. Initially, I knew about Bloomberg the company, but didn't really know all that much about what they did, what products they provided, and especially about their contributions to some open source projects. I really got to learn what Bloomberg does as a company and how they make it their mission to deliver very important financial and nonfinancial news to people all around the world. I also learned just how much they really have to focus on optimizing their software to make sure that they are keeping track with all of the latest news and to efficiently feed their clients with all this data instantaneously.

I also found it both unexpected and shocking that he really talked in-depth about how Bloomberg has to scale their products and how open sourcing a project helps with that scaling. I believe it was the product Solr where he said that they just couldn't continue to add new features to it and scale it anymore because it had just gotten to big, and that the best solution to this problem was to open source it. I found this very interesting because I always wondered what were some reasons why big tech companies had some projects that were open source while other projects weren't, and this helped open my eyes to see that scaling a massive project even further than it already has been scaled can very well in fact be one of the reasons why a company may need or may want to open source a project.

# Weekly Contribution(s):
This week I made a contribution to yet another Wikipedia page. This time the Wikipedia page was the "Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker" Wikipedia page. I added a few plot details within the plot section of the page concerning Rey's yellow lightsaber at the end of the film, and the "secret" that Finn attempted to tell Rey throughout the whole entire film, but never got to. No contributions have yet been made to gatsby as I am continuing to try to get the docs setup locally; however, I have been studying my issue more and more in-depth nevertheless so that when I do get the docs setup successfully, I can smoothly make all the necessary changes that the gatsby team is looking for.
