---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

# Various ways I would like to contribute to one or more open source projects during the course of this semester: :bell:

1. Creating diagrams :chart:, screen-shots, and graphics for other people's docs to help enhance them.
2. Submitting changes to an open source project and having them be successfully merged into the designated codebase :white_check_mark:.
3. Designing a documentation guide :blue_book: on the architecture of a project as a means to help others including myself navigate proficiently through the project.
4. Analyzing and reviewing an open source project's documentation and correcting any spelling or grammar mistakes that may be present :pencil2:.
5. Cloning open source projects onto my device, thoroughly testing them, and submitting bug reports that contain a list of all of the current bugs :bug: that may have been found during testing.
6. Suggesting new features and options to the project :speaker: or even new graphics such as icons and backgrounds that would help enhance the program.
7. Help others learn how to use the program by doing things such as building a glossary of technical terms :green_book: that are associated with the project's technologies or even creating simple tutorials that help others become more familiar with the project.
8. Reading relevant standards and checking to see if the codebase follows those standards :heavy_check_mark:.
9. Translating documentation or any program text to another language such as Spanish for other contributors that may only know Spanish :radio_button:.
10. Contribute to an open source project and then convincing others to also contribute to that same project to help them out even further :heavy_dollar_sign:.  

### How does working in open source benefit me other than giving me satisfaction of making a contribution to a project? :star2:

##### FOSS Benefits to My Skills:
1. Allow to me be a better communicator :speech_balloon: because it will force me to be proactive by reaching out to others since I will have to be contacting others regarding things related to the project that I may or want to be contributing to.
2. Enhance my coding skills :chart_with_upwards_trend: because I will constantly be reading other people's code. Such a task is very difficult at first, since it's not easy adjusting to other people's way of coding and the standards that they follow. Reading other's code can not only help you get better at studying code more efficiently and finding bugs faster, but also it can help open your eyes too and show you that your way of writing code may not always be the "right way" as you may have previously thought.
3. Learn more technologies :iphone: such as frameworks and languages and forcing me to be able to pick them up faster. When contributing, if I plan to make contributions to an open source project code-wise, I will have to learn whatever technologies or languages they are using if I currently don't. Studying other people's codebases, will force me to be able to understand and comprehend the languages and technologies that they are using because if I don't then I won't understand what the program may or may not be doing.

##### FOSS Benefits to My Career:
1. Help me to work better within a team. When programming, it is very common to work alone, but when you work in the industry, most of the time, that won't be the case as you'll be working with a team. Contributing to an open source project will help me to better understand the gists of working within a team as different people will be doing different tasks and everyone will have to work together :ear: if the project is going to succeed.
2. Allow me to get more familiar with the industry and how companies operate. By contributing to projects and working with others, I will get to see just how fast companies move, how they high priority bugs :bug: in their application, and see just how they grow and expand their application.

##### FOSS Benefits to My Personal Network:
1. Allow me to meet new people and make a name for myself. If I am able to contribute effectively to many projects, people associated with those projects will see me as a very reliable and dependable person :heavy_check_mark:. As a result, I will be able to make an immense amount of connections, and that may come in handy when applying for future positions in the tech industry or even recruting people to work with me if I happen to create an open source project of my own.
2. Allow me to get a great sense of the Software Engineering community and just see both the benefits and positive impact that working with others together in a community can have on an application that wouldn't be possible if it wasn't open source :gem:.

##### FOSS Benefits from Preparation:
1. From preparation, I will develop better social skills :+1: and be able to communicate and collaborate more effectively in a team setting.
2. From preparation, I will also be able to transfer all the skills that I have learned from helping and contributing to open source projects to my future job as a Software Engineer :punch:, and just use my past experience to make incredible contributions to my company and their application.


