---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

# Top Open Source Project Preferences

### 1. Microsoft's Visual Studio Code:
The Visual Studio Code project is one in which I would very much like to work on. As a text editor, Visual Studio Code is my absolute favorite text editor and I use it almost every single day. The application is super neat and well organized, comes with tons of different color themes, and allows users to begin coding very quickly. As an application for software engineers and programmers, Visual Studio Code is absolutely wonderful, but even as an Open Source project it is fantastic for Open Source contributors. As an Open Source project, Visual Studio Code is well documented, has a very active community, and an easy to understand project workflow. The Visual Studio Code community is very welcoming to new contributors, the conduct displayed by the Visual Studio Code team is extremely professional, and there is an immense community responsiveness to the project by the contributors who are maintaining the project. People who contribute to the project can contribute knowing that the Visual Studio Code team reviews pull requests and answers questions concerning issues very quickly. The project also uses many relevant and popular programming technologies such as TypeScript, Javascript, and CSS so the knowledge/experience obtained by using these skills while contributing to this project will definitely be transferrable for other Open Source projects and other programming endeavors. The Visual Studio Code Open Source project has too many great things going for it and because of this, it tops my Open Source top project preferences list!


### 2. Django:
Django is another Open Source project that I would very much like to contribute to. As a backend web python framework, Django is both very popular and widely used within the Software Engineering industry. Personally, I have never used the framework myself, but have had the desire to do so for the longest time. All that aside, Django is also an awesome Open Source project to contribute to. It's not very hard to setup the development environment for django, and the primary language of the project is Python which is both a fantastic and neat programming language that I deeply enjoying working with. Also, I have browsed thorugh many of the source code files, and the code is heavily documented with tons of comments and is extremely easy to understand. The Django team and community is very very very active and pull requests are merged rapidly. Pull requests and questions regarding issues never go un-answered, and there is such a high responsiveness all throughout the project's discussions forums. The Django team is very classy and the maintainers of the project often thank people for their contributions. For all of these reaosns, Django also makes my preference list of top Open Source Projects that I would like to contribute to.

### 3. TEAMMATES:
TEAMMATES is a nice Open Source project that I wouldn't mind contributing to at all. It is a very useful tool used by many universities across the world for managing peer evaluations and other possible feedback paths of students. As an Open Source project, TEAMMATES has been noted by my peers as a good Open Source project to contribute to if you have some experience with both java or web development. I have some minor experience with Java, but a good amount of experience with web development though. The community has been said to be both polite and friendly, and also the project has a high responsiveness as there are many active disucssions on their forums, pull requests, and issues. Plus, the code has been stated to be very well documented, which would make contributing code-wise a lot easier than a lot of other projects. As an Open Source project, TEAMMATES has a ton of things going for it, and for this reason it makes my list of top Open Source projects that I would like to contribute to.

### Contributions I Have Made This Week:
I noticed that a new Target store that was recently built in the Lower East Side of NYC wasn't marked within the OpenStreetMap software application. As a result, I decided to mark that address with a new Target icon and add the store hours.
