---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

# Gatsby Chronicles

### Overview:
The open source project that my group and I have selected to make contributions to over the course of the semester is Gatsby.js, a free and open source framework based on React that helps developers build blazing fast websites and apps. I was really interested in working on this project because during my evaluation of this organization, I noticed that they have a high community responsiveness, their docs are very well documented and easy for beginners to pick up, they have tons of tags that are both labeled and very detailed, and ultimately the Gatsby team also seemed to be very friendly and helpful to people contributing to their project! 

### Development Environment Log:
I attempted to install the development environment for Gatsby.js on my machine late night on Friday March 6th, 2020. I didn't get very far as the steps documented in the [Gatsby local development environment guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment/) took a very extensive amount of time installing so I stopped my current progress, and resumed it the next day. I was successfully able to proceed with the installation of the development environment up until the command "yarn test." As stated in their installation steps, all the tests that are executed during the duration of the command "yarn test" are supposed to pass successfully. Unfortunately for me, I had about 6 tests that failed so I knew I had to fix this before proceeding onto the next steps within the installation process. I did some research on this exact issue and based on my findings, this issue seemed to be occurring because my current version of yarn was slightly too old. After that, I ran into some problems with upgrading yarn that originated from npm on my device since I used npm to install yarn initially. More and more problems kept on appearing so this slowed down my progress. Ultimately, I was able to upgrade yarn, but then when running the command "yarn test" again I ran into a few more issues with some of the tests still failing. I will both continue to attempt to successfully install the development environment, and log my results throughout the progress.

### Gatsby Issue Log:
While waiting for my installations for the development environment to finish, I looked over the list of the project's issues on the github page. The Gatsby repo does have issues that are specifically marked for beginners, but most of them are already taken and being worked on by other contributors. Because of this, I continued searching for other tags, and I found a section that is dedicated to just documentation issues. This section has a lot of good issues that appear to be doable even for beginners like myself. I found one in particular that interests me a lot. The [issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/21962) requires one to offer deeper explanations on the Gatsby GraphQL docs. I would very much like to work on this issue because I have been wanting to deepen my knowledge concerning GraphQL APIs, and I think this would be the perfect opportunity to do that and offer some better explanations on that concept within their docs to help out others.

# Weekly Contribution(s):
This week I made a few blog edit changes to Denice's weekly blogs. I specifically made changes to Denice's week 2 and 5 blogs such as lowercasing all instances of the words "Open Source" that weren't at the start of a sentence. On another note, no contributions have yet been made to the Gatsby.js project by me.
