---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---


# Blog Prompts

### What skills do I have that would be useful for contributing to a FOSS project?
1. The skill of being able to work well with others. This skill would be very useful when contributing to a FOSS project because sometimes I may be working with others doing things that they may need help with such as helping them get more familiar with the codebase, teaming up with them to figure out a code-related problem, or just coming together and discussing very important things about the project such as issues, upcoming features, and goals. Having a team first mentality and always being willing to help out others when they need/ask for it, is something that would be very useful and most certainly help advance the project as one of the things that makes a project such as a FOSS one very successful, is how well people are able to work together.
2. Another skill that I have that would be very useful for contributing to a FOSS project is my organization skills. This particular skill could help in more than one way depending on the FOSS project that I am contributing to. One way would be is if the FOSS project that I am contributing to has their documentation or resources just all over the place. I can help them organize such things in a more maintainable and contributor-friendly manner. This could be done by making their docs/resources more accessible, neater, or even just by making it so that current/future contributors are able to easily comprehend the project's architectural structure. Another way would be is if their codebase is very disjointed and hard to follow. For example, if the project just has a file structure that is very convoluted or hard to navigate through to other contributors. I can help implement a more organized and concise structure that is much more easy to follow and with a much lower learning curve. This would ultimately be very useful because by helping a FOSS project become more organized and maintainable, it would help other contributors both current and future find and comprehend certain doc/project related details faster, and ultimately allow them to start contributing quicker since they won't be spending so much time navigating through the project and looking for things.
3. The skill of being able to pick up new technologies, programming languages, and frameworks very quickly is yet another skill I have that would be immensely useful for contributing to a FOSS project. The reason why such a skill would be very useful and important is because I can immediately beign making code-related contributions to the project after I have of course read all of the contents contained in their contributing and code-of-conduct files. Some FOSS projects may have a ton of code-related assignments that need to get done ASAP and may actually specify this to new contributors, thus expecting them to make contributions to their codebase immediately. In this particular scenario, being able to pick new software tehcnologies extremely quickly would definitely come in handy as it would allow me to understand and read their code much faster, and most importantly begin coding up solutions for their code-related issues.
4. The last and final skill that I possess that I believe would be very useful when contributing to a FOSS project would be my writing communication skills. I personally don't feel as though my speaking communication skills are so great; however, I do feel as though my writing skills are. This would be very useful when contributing to FOSS projects, because there will as I can imagine be times where I will need to reach out to one of the main contributors of the project about one of my pull requests, questions concerning the project, or a particular contribution that I would like to make, and being able to effectively communicate through my writing would build trust between me and the contributors. This would also help prevent future problems from arising due to miscommunication, and ultimately improve both my and their productivity as there would be less back and forth and instead more things just seamlessly getting done.

### What things are the most interesting to me? I.e., what do I enjoy doing?
1. The number one thing that interests me and that I enjoy doing is developing software. I really love creating new software applications espcially ones that help others. For the past few months, I have been working on a personal project with a few of my friends. We have been designing a mobile calendar and scheduling service application with the purpose of helping people stay organized, better manage their own daily activities, and facilitate the process of making plans with their own friends and family. Developing such applications is very challenging, but also both very exciting and stimulating for me.
2. Another thing that interests me very much is solving those data structure and algorithm puzzle questions that can be found on many competitive programming websites. Many of those problems can be very tricky, but I enjoy them for a number of reasons. Some reasons are that I love challenges and actually working through those challenges, and ultimately overcoming them. Another being that they are very thought-provoking and invigorating. I think they do a fantastic job at sharpening the mind and of course improving my data structure and algorithm skills. Finally, there's a large competitive programming community and I think that doing these problems helps you interact with others who also enjoy solving these problems. Many of these websites have discussions forums where you can discuss these problems, optimal solutions, and many other things. This is absolutely awesome because you can honestly learn a great deal becuase many approach these problems in unique and fascinating ways and sometimes the solutions and conversations can be quite breaktaking from a coding perspective.
3. Another thing that very much interests me is cybersecurity. Topics such as networking and ethical hacking fascinate me a lot. I am often very busy, but whenever I have time, I enjoy reading books that cover these topics and help deepen my knowledge concerning them. I really love learning about cybersecurity and just find the field so interesting, that I have actually thought about picking it up more in-depth at a later point in my Computer Science career.

### Contributions I Made This Week
1. Found a popular pizza restaurant on OpenStreetMaps that is actually no longer in business since they were shut down. This change was not present in the OpenStreetMaps database, but I submitted a change that updated it's status by removing the pizza icon that was associated with the restaurant and providing a description as to what happened.
2. Navigated to my neighborhood using the OpenStreetMaps software, and noticed a very popular supermarket that many people go to wasn't marked or identified within their database, so I gave it a supermarket icon, marked the location, and listed it's name.
