---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

# Gatsby Chronicles:

This past week, I gained what I would consider, some huge traction. I was finally able to set up the local development environment. I spent almost the entire day on Friday debugging tons of errors that I was getting from specific commands listed on Gatsby's guide to setting up the local development environment. I was getting errors related to an invalid Python path environment variable, an inadequate version of Python (I have a version of Python that isn't yet supported by Gatsby), an error stating that I needed to install some core C++ features for Visual Studio, etc... All of this took tons of debugging and tons of research. It was quite difficult because a lot of the errors I was getting could not be found anywhere else online. Also, my group memebers were unable to assist me or help me simply because some of the problems I was receiving were only specific to my operating system. Because of this, I really had to read up on what some of these errors were actually stating, and then find a possible solution with the uncertainty of actually knowing whether or not what I was doing would actually work. Luckily for me, the solutions I found worked and I was able to set up the local development environment of the Gatsby project. I am still in the process of setting up the Gatsby docs locally. I ran into a few errors, but hope to have that also set up by next week. 

In regards to the Gatsby issue that I have voiced interest in, I have commented within the discussion forum for that issue and asked for permission to work on it. A few days after I commented my interest for that particular issue, one of the contributors responded thanking me for my interest in wanting to contribute to the Gatsby project, and stated that I should make a pull request for it, and that he will review my changes once I finish it. Since then, I have responded, and this week I will continue my research of GraphQL concepts and attempt to start making the necessary changes to the Gatsby docs that the issue is asking for.


# Coronavirus Impact:
Initially, I didn't give much thought to the pandemic otherwise known as the coronavirus. I thought that this would be another disease epidemic that would just pass away after a few months like other ones that have previously had their fair share of inflicting terror, pain, and destruction; however, that is most certainly not the case with this one. Before I knew it, the coronavirus had made its way into New York City. It only took a matter of days for many businesses, schools, and other public facilities to either be shut down or closed. What appeared to be such a wonderful semester quickly turned into one with tons of confusion, uneasiness, and uncertainty. When I first received the news that classes at Hunter College were no longer going to be held physically, but rather virtually, I began questioning how I would be able to handle the issue of not having quick access to some sort of internet connection as at home, I do not at all have internet or any sort of cable. Because of this, I usually rely on school to be open so that I can take advantage of the free wifi that the university offers. For this reason, I almost never do homework at home, but rather at school or at the library that's close to my house. I also began wondering how would this transition to remote learning affect the way I take exams and do other school related activities. Many professors were also wondering how they would conduct such activities and were unsure of the implications that remote classes would impose on the learning environment. We're all unsure on what the future holds and whether or not all of this will work and be somewhat successful. For this reason, I think many people have come to develop a level of uneasiness about everything that's occurring within our society. I am a person that is rarely at home; however, with the illness outside I have made the decision to stay home and only go out to buy food or other materials for my house. It has felt very weird to just be home and I quickly find myself getting bored easily whenever I am not doing work. 

On another note, one of my friends recently notified me about Spectrum's Free Student Internet Service. It's a service that Spectrum is providing to students who, due to the coronavirus, must stay at home, and who also do not have access to wifi. Upon hearing the news I immediately called Spectrum and within a day they sent me a free wifi modem and router for sixty days. I am thankful for the service that they are providing and hope that this situation won't continue to persist even after the semester is over. Unfortunately, I believe that the worst is yet to come and that all of us will be forced to stay self-quarantined until maybe mid-summer. In New York City, I don't believe a curfew will be put in place, but I do think that more businesses and restaurants will continue to close down as they lose tons of money because of the dramatic drop in customers. I also believe that in some supermarkets we may see supply continue to decrease as the illness spreads, and more people begin to buy more and more things due to their growing fears of being quarantined and not being able to leave their homes as frequently. I hope this won't be the case, but it most likely will be for about the next three months. All in all, I wish well-being to all!


# Weekly Contribution(s):
This week I made three contributions to my friendly classmates' weekly blogs. Within those blogs, I fixed grammar mistakes, rewrote sentences, and fixed some markdown issues all as a means to smoothen the writing style of and richen the already rich content that some of my fellow classmates have written within their blogs. Along with this, I have also made my first Wikipedia contribution. I provided some extra historical information about Charles Dow one of the original founders of the Dow Jones & Company within the history section under the Dow Jones & Company Wikipedia page. No contributions have yet been made to Gatsby as I continue to research and deepen my knowledge concerning GraphQL concepts.
