---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

# Blog Prompt for Week 4  
## Open Source Projects That I Have Looked At Thus Far:
### Google's Open Source UI Software Development Kit: Flutter
#### Project Documents
* Contains a README.md, CONTRIBUTING.md, CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, and a LICENSE file.
* All of these files are very complete and concise. Very easy for newbies to follow and get started quickly!
#### Project Tools and Technology
* Issue Tracker: Github Issue Tracker
* Communication Channel(s): Discord and Github
* Programming Languages and Tools:  Dart
* Development Environment: Android Studio with the Flutter Plugin
#### Project Activity
* Community Staus: Extremely Active
* Issues/Pull requests: A lot of issues and pull requests
* Questions/Reponses: Lots of questions, but many replies to those questions
#### Issue Tracking
* Issue Tagging: Issues are both thoroughly tracked and have the appropriate tags.
* Issues For Newcomers: There is a section for new contributors that show how to contribute to Flutter, but there isn't many tasks in that section.
#### Community Responsiveness
* Merged Pull Requests: Pull requests are reviewed very quickly, but it seems as though many don't get merged as fast because the Flutter team requires high degree of excellence.
* Questions About Issues: Answered almost always on the same day!
#### Community Welcomeness
* Community Feel: Very warming!
* Newcomer-Friendly: Docs are both newcomer-friendly and well documented.
* Project Conduct: Flutter's and other contributor's conduct is very helpful to other contributors and also very respectful.

**Concluding Project Evaluation**: All in all, Flutter is a very promising Open Source project that I would very much be interested in contributing to. Their repository has everything that would make it extremely easy for newcomers to get started with it. The only lacking quality about their repo is that they just don't have many tasks for new contributors, but everything else about the repository and project is great!

### Microsoft's Cross-Platform Source-Code Editor: Visual Studio Code
#### Project Documents
1. brjg
2. gbrjgbrj
3. rgjrbgjrbgj
#### Project Tools and Technology
1. vbrjb
2. rbjbrj
3. rjgbrjbg
#### Project Activity
1. rbgjrbg
2. grbjbgjr
3. rjbgjrbgj
#### Issue Tracking
1. rjgbrjgb
2. gb4jgb4j
3. rgrjbgjrbgj
#### Community Responsiveness
1. 4jbgj4bgj
2. 4jbgjbg
3. rgjbrjgb
#### Community Welcomeness
1. rgbjrg
2. rgbgjrbg
3. rbjgjrbg
