---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

# Gatsby Chronicles: :tada:

Finally, after many frustrating weeks of attempting to build and run the Gatsby docs locally, I have indeed succeeded. Right before the last blog, I submmited a [bug report](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/22649) to the Gatsby team in hopes that they could assist me in finding a solution to a problem I was having when trying to run the Gatsby docs. This problem was concerned with the screenshot process :camera_flash: taking an irrational amount of time and never ending during the Gatsby docs build.  About more than a week after posting the issue, Gatsby members proposed a few solutions and one of them did in fact end up working for me. The solution that worked for me was creating a new file inside the www directory that's within their Gatsby project files with a specific command listed inside it that intentionally skips the screenshot process :camera_flash: during the building of the Gatsby docs.

With the Gatsby docs building and running successfully on my machine, I decided to get to work immediately on the particular issue that I had selected. Within the discussion of the [doc issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/21962) :pencil: I had chosen, the Gatsby contributor who had opened the issue detailed all the steps to resolve the issue. I added all the changes that needed to be made, pushed them :arrow_up: to the class fork of the Gatsby project, and then proceeded to make a [pull request](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/pull/23106). Another Gatsby contributor has taken note of my pull-request and suggested a few minuscule changes to make as a means to pass all of the Gatsby documentation tests :white_check_mark:. I have committed the suggested changes and the pull-request will be merged very soon! :sparkles:

# Guest Speaker Gil Yehuda Class Visit: :bulb:



# Folding@Home's COVID-19 Activity Response: :globe_with_meridians: 
Upon reading Folding@Home's post concerning the steps they're taking in the fight against COVID-19, I find it very interesting. It really highlights one of the very reasons why I love software engineering. One of the reasons why I love software engineering is the vastness of it and all the creative unique things that you can utilize it for. There's really no limit to what software can do, and people can develop software to do almost anything. It's quite remarkable. I think that the software that Folding@Home has built to deepen the research on COVID-19, with the endgame being to ultimately identify weaknesses within this virus' proteins as a means to develop medicines that can exploit these vulnerabilities is a perfect example of this. I love the positive use of the software that they have developed.

On another note, I really do think that this particular software can indeed be very helpful in understanding the overall behavior of the COVID-19 virus. Folding@Home has had success before and actually managed to identify a potential weakness in the Ebola virus so I do think that what they are doing has merit. I also really like the fact that they are allowing people to donate their computing power to help them gather more and more information regarding the virus. I think it's a unique way in which people can contribute and help out without having to give away money. As stated in the post, the simulations and calculations that their software executes are enormous and it is very true that the donating in computing power can indeed be extremely useful to the work that they are doing. Kudos to Folding@Home!

# Weekly Contributions: :pencil2:
Because week 10 spanned for a few weeks, I have made quite a few contributions. I made three contributions to Wikipedia. Two of the Wikipedia contributions that I made were concerned with two movies :movie_camera: one being "The Dark Knight Rises" wiki page and the other being the "Captain America: The Winter Soldier wiki page. Both of these contributions added significant plot details within the plot section of those pages :page_facing_up: that weren't already included, but that were very useful to include. The other Wikipedia contribution I made was to the "Shark Tank" Wikipedia page. Shark Tank is one of my favorite shows and I added some details to the page that provided further information concerning what the show is about, and other information concerning the sharks within the show.

The other contribution I have made is to the Gatsby project :rocket:. I made a contribution that is concerned with their GraphQL docs :pencil:. My changes helped to offer some explanation regarding Gatsby GraphQL concepts as there have been some confusion regarding certain things between Gatsby and GraphQL. I added a comment in one of the code examples of their documentation pages that essentially states that certain node fields are not required and can be called whatever the client deems necessary according to their data. I also added a note on the page that signifies that the Gatsby node fields can be arbitrary and do not have to follow some sort of systematic guideline.


