---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---


# Why I decided to take a course in open source development :star:

For the past few months, I have been working as a Software Engineering Intern at a startup. One of the most important and indispensable tools that I have needed to utilize time after time is the renowned version-control system called git. Git is a wonderful tool :zap: that helps software teams manage modifications to their source code over time. One way in which it accomplishes this is by meticulously keeping track of every single modification that an engineer may make to a codebase. There are definitely more features that git provides that make managing an entire codebase easy; however, for the sake of this post, I will refrain from listing all of them. 

With all of that in mind, before taking this course, I was informed by a great number of my peers that this course dives a lot into git and it's underlying features and functionalities. This very nugget of information pique a lot of interest in me :bulb: for many reasons. As a Software Engineering Intern, I use git a lot and have come to understand how to use some of it's main features, and though I have been using git for many months now, I still feel as though I don't have a very deep and extensive understanding of how it works as a whole. I understand the main functionalities such as commits, pushing, pulling, merging, along with other operations and what they do, but I simply feel as though I don't possess the advanced knowledge of just how these operations and git thereof work as a whole underneath the "hood". How do these commands do what they're supposed to do? How was git designed or how would one even go about designing such a tool? It's one thing to know how to use a tool, but it's another to understand how such a tool was constructed as well as it's underlying features and limitations. 

I believe that knowing such things would certainly help me to become both a better Software Engineer :muscle: and an expert with git :sunglasses:. Hearing that this course teaches a lot about git coupled with my desire to know more about it on a deeper level, caused me to want to take this course. As a result, I decided to, and am very much looking forward to learning more about git and other topics such as open source Development in the upcoming weeks!  

Happy Coding,  
Elijah Cano

