---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

# Gatsby Chronicles:
This past week, I once again attempted to successfully setup the local development environment for Gatsby. Last week I had the issue where when I ran the command "yarn test" as listed in the [Gatsby local dev environment guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment/) under the header "Fork, clone, and branch the repository", some tests were failing despite the fact that they should've been passing. From researching, I deduced that upgrading your current version of yarn may help solve the issue. I ended up actually upgrading both yarn and npm on my local device and trying again, but no progress was made. As a result, I also decided and went on to redo all of the steps once again to setup the local development environment. I recloned the repo and ran all the commands listed in the guide multiple times; however, I kept encountering the same issue again and again. Following all of this, I proceeded to contact my team and inquire with them to see if they too were facing any of the same issues that I was having while attempting to setup the local development environment. From our discussions, we believe that one of the problems may be as a result of my operating system since my group members all have Macs and were able to setup the environment both smoothly and quickly, while I myself have Windows. I decided to postpone this and attempt to setup the Gatsby docs environment since I was very interested in working on this issue [here](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/21962) which is predicated on improving the section of the Gatsby docs which focuses on GraphQL concepts and the relationship between it and the Gatsby project. Unfortunately, I also wasn't able to successfully setup the docs as I kept encountering an issue when I ran the command "gatsby develop" listed under the "Docs site setup instructions" header within the [Gatsby doc setup guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/docs-contributions#docs-site-setup-instructions). The issue was concerned with a certain local plugin specifically the "gatsby-plugin-netlify-cache" plugin not being found within the plugins directory located within the www directory which is under the main gastby root directory. I researched this issue and also confided with my group concerning this issue, and we are still looking for a solution that works for me. Despite all of these problems, I have still continued to push forward with my interest with that particular GraphQL documentation issue that I have been eyeing. I have also done research and read up on [Gatsby's documenation guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/docs-contributions#docs-site-setup-instructions) on how to contribute to their docs as well as their [styling guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/) that contains a list of suggestions, tips, and other things to keep in mind when making a doc change or any particular change that is related to the Gatsby website. Topics such as writing style (how to write clearly and concisely for beginners with very basic coding experience), how to reference other people's works if you choose to utilize their work while writing up something for Gatsby, and other common pitfalls to avoid when writing just so that Gatsby's docs and website can be the best that it can possibly be!
# Open Source is About Us As a Community:

My initial thoughts concerning the article "Open Source is Not About You" are that though the tone is very firm, I do agree with the author's overall message about open source development. People who use any sort of open source product shouldn't in any shape or form feel as though they are entitled to anything. They don't have the right to tell the owner's or people that produce those open source products what they should be doing or how they should be managing their projects or products. If the user has an issue, they shouldn't be complaining instead they should either fix it themselves or create their own solution that solves the problem they're complaining about. As people who use open source products, we shouldn't feel any sense of entitlement instead we should be giving back to one another, helping eachother, and expressing our thankfulness to the people that have made these projects and products. As seen in the article, many of the people that creating these projects and products are investing both a lot of their time and money into them, and for some people to not truly appreciate this and then feel as though they are entitled to something and expect that these people do what they want is something that is not at all appropriate. Open source shouldn't be something that we take for granted because it's ultimately a blessing that many people have fought for. Instead we should appreciate this wondeful thing that we have, and help out those that are putting their heart and soul into these open source projects and products. Open source is about all of us as a community!

# Weekly Contribution(s):
This week I made an OpenStreetMap contribution. I noticed that an ice skating rink that opened a few years ago at the Brookfield Mall located in Battery Park City hadn't yet been marked within the OpenStreetMap system so I decided to mark it with an ice skating rink point icon and also log its exact address. On another note, no contributions have yet been made to the Gatsby.js project by me. I have just began asking if I may work on the GraphQL documentation issue within the discussion section for that partituclar issue ticket.